(bright music)
Alright, now we're gonna move
on to typography.
This will be a quick video,
it's essentially just more global styles.
However, I like to keep them in their own file,
because I know that if there's a global type style
that you need to adjust, a font,
a base color, something like that that needs to be done,
I go into my typography file.
So we'll go to our styles file here.
(laughs)
Here, over here.
And we'll make a Typography.js capital T file.
And I'm going to get you a copy paste this one,
I'm not going to make you copy and paste
everything in this course,
but for this base stuff,
it's so simple that there's no sense
in spending a lot of time on that.
So we'll go into our source, components, no.
Styles, Typography.js.
Click raw, grab it, let's go through it real quick.
So I'm grabbing the createGlobalStyle again
to insert global styles into our application,
this is important, this is another time
where we make sure that all of our files
and assets go through Gatsby.
So here I am importing the font into Gatsby
and its a woff file.
And then what I do is simply by importing that,
what it will do is it will put the URL of the font
into this variable called "font"
and then that allows me to go ahead and use that
when I declare my font face.
And that's great, because Gatsby's gonna
take it out of our assets folder
and put it into our static folder for us, which is great.
Then also what do we do here?
I said a base font stack on our HTML,
that makes sure that you don't have any weird
Times New Roman sneak up on buttons
so there's some weird stuff like that.
Then letter spacing, some h1 through h6.
Then we've got our links, we've got some helper,
so I have a mark tag and anything with
a class of mark will hit this black,
or sorry, this yellow background with some padding,
inline, line-height, you get the point.
And then anything that needs a tilt, I add a tilt.
These are just global classes that I'm adding
and I can slap 'em on,
then I go ahead and export that,
and we'll go into our layout.js,
and we'll simply just duplicate that.
Typography, then we'll autoimport it.
Boom.
And now if we go to our application here
you'll see, we've got this French Fries font,
it's showing, oh, hold on.
This is not, no.
We don't need this.
I put this font stack here,
but then I'm just immediately overwriting it
with this font family right here.
So actually what we need to do,
and this might already be in the finished solution,
is put FrenchFries, and then comma,
and that will make sure our font stack has the proper font.
So there we go, there's that French Fries font,
obviously you don't have to use it,
but I think it looks kinda cool,
and it's a custom font that we've put in.
So, that's typography, we'll probably jump into that
a few more times here or there
if we need to add some type styles,
but for now, let's get into the rest.